# PHYSICS INFORMATION 




# TO BE SEARCHED - (ALTERNATING CURRENT)


# ALTERNATING CURRENT 

- `EMF` - Suppose a resistance(R) is connected across the terminals of a battery.A potential difference is developed across its ends.Current(or positive charge) flows from higher potential to lower potential across the resistance by itself.But inside the battery work has to be done to bring the positive charge from lower potential to higher potential.The influence that makes current flow from lower to higher potential(inside the battery) is called EMF.If w is the work done by battery in taking a charge q from negative terminal to positive terminal,then work done by battery per unit charge emf(E) of the battery. thus, E=W/q"

- `DC Circuit Theory` - The fundamental relationship between voltage, current and resistance in an electrical or electronic circuit is called Ohm’s Law.
- http://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/root-mean-square-RMS 
- For a sine wave, the rms value is `0.707` times the peak value, or `0.354` times thepeak-to-peak value. 
- `Voltage drop` is defined as the amount of voltage loss that occurs through all or part of a circuit due to impedance. A common analogy used to explain voltage, current and voltage drop is a garden hose. Voltage is analogous to the water pressure supplied to the hose.
- `IMPEDANCE` - the effective resistance of an electric circuit or component to alternating current, arising from the combined effects of ohmic resistance and reactance.

- `DIFF BTN EMF AND VOLTAGE`

An electric generator produces E.M.F inside the   generator in the armature which is due to the change of flux in the armature coils and this is a perfect example of E.M.F.
`EMF=k*Φ*w …………….where k— a constant, Φ— flux per pole, w—speed of the rotor.`

Here is no term of resistance over here. So, emf is generated by a source.

Voltage is just the potential difference between two points in a circuit.

`Voltage=I*R ……`

And here comes the play of resistance and if it is an a.c circuit then resistance will be replaced by impedance. You just put a voltmeter in two terminals of your electronic/electrical circuit you will get the voltage difference between that two points. One more important thing is that we can’t find voltage of a single point.

- The main difference is that in alternating current, the direction of electron flow reverses itself several times per second, 50 or 60 depending on what part of the world you're in. In direct current, the electron flow is continuous in the same direction. There are advantages and disadvantages to both. The Wikipedia pages are pretty comprehensive.
- In india 230 v, less than  10 A current is provided...
- A person can die when in contact to 1A current.
-  In fast charging chargers, the voltage remains same but the current is increased

# CURRENT ELCTRICITY
- the resistance within a battery, or other voltage source, that causes a drop in the source voltage when there is a current. ... There is, therefore, actual reduction in the electromotive force of the cell, as well as an increase in `internal resistance.`
- a pure voltage source is usually referred to as an emf (which stands for electromotive force). Of course, emf is measured in units of volts. A battery can be modeled as an emf connected in series with a resistor , which represents its i`nternal resistance.`
-  `Voltage` is just a way to describe how much energy is supplied from a source. You can kind of think of it as an `electric potential energy.`
This energy is traveling in the form of `current` and meets disturbances along it’s path, called `resistances`. The larger the resistance, the more energy it takes to get through that resistance, and as a result, it loses that energy which is `dissipated as heat.` So, after every resistance the current goes through, `it loses energy through heat dissipation`, and thus experiences` a drop in energy/voltage.` The larger the resistance, the larger the amount of energy it needs to use in order to get through.
- due to voltage drop, the voltage at the output terminal is less than the input terminal. Here drop means difference or delta.

- A `capacitor` is basically two conducting plates with an "insulator" between them called a `dielectric`. The reason it is called a dielectric and not just a insulator is because it has `special electromagnetic properties` where it blocks the flow of current, but it allows an electrics field to pass through it. So what happens is, the dielectric material will block the charges from passing through it. This is sort of like a traffic jam, and `negative charges will all start building up on one plate, and all the positive charges that are moving the other way will start building up on the other.` There will be no current passing through the dielectric, but because there is a `large difference in the charge of the plates` (one is largely positive and the other is largely negative) there will be an` electric field` in the dielectric (which means there will be a `voltage` across it).

- A high dielectric constant means that a dielectric can hold a bigger charge.
- `Dielectric` refers to a material that is a `poor conductor of electricity.` Dielectric materials can be made to hold an electrostatic charge while dissipating minimal energy in the form of heat. Glass, porcelain, mica, rubber, plastics dry air, vacuums and some liquids and gases are dielectric.





# LINKS - 
- https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/1kgy2v/eli5_alternating_current/
- https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/11d1vk/eli5_the_difference_between_ac_and_dc_current/
- https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/3zo1qd/eli5_why_do_we_use_ac_electricity_and_not_dc/
- https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/30g3zp/eli5is_the_direction_of_current_flow_always/ -- `direction of current flow`
- https://www.quora.com/What-is-direction-of-flow-of-current -- `direction of current flow`

- https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/20r5td/eli5_what_is_the_difference_between_electron_flow/ -- `direction of current flow`